research

why the delta time's behaivour is increasing. 

the bug here was the animation speed is getting increased by time no matter what i decide it to be.
and the reason is we are passing globalTime to update function which is getting its value from dt as globalTime += dt.asSeconds();

but this means the globalTime always increases. but we want it to be resetted after a animation is displayed. actually it resets but the
main issue here is its start value is increasing. for example it starts with 1 1.5 3 ... 10 and becomes 0 because the animationtime is 10

but the next iteration starts with a bigger value the than previous like 1.1 1.2 etc. and this keeps increasing all the time. and this means
the animation time is comes quickly and the animation is performed really fast.

but i couldnt figure out why this happens. idk if this is the problem or bug but when i pass the exact dt itself to update function
the animation speed bug is fixed. 

lets try one more time.
and
no it fucking did not. fkk why am i writing this then. nooooooooooo.

okay i just forget it as previous verison so it really fixes the fast animation bug but there is a another error.

it is: now the animation time threshold should be a really tiny value like 0.002 cause we use dt.asSeconds() as a timer and the dt is a 
clock.restart() so it restarts after every frame is rendered so the time value is a bit tiny.

idk what to do and what is the best solution for this. i actually seperate the time control mechanisms. i think i can use the
fixed time steps for only mathematical/physical calculations, collisions and etc
,and the delta time for movement vector, animations speed etc.

i think i gotta research this or the convenient method and figure how should i code it out. 

okay im giving this a week. lets just try to solve it in a week.

23/07/2026

i think the problem is how the fixed time step works. in my insights the lag happens at the gametime and the time accumulator
renders more than normal so the animations getting fast.

yea it seems like it happens when the fps is got spiked down to 500 from around 4500 on my m5 mac i think
this should be a expected result based on accumulator behaivour but it is not how it should be.=

the solution i came up with probably removing the render from the fixed time steps. 
fixed time steps should only be used for physical calculations and like etc.
i will try this when i get home after work.

the bug occurs when the animation timer is bigger than animation speed and not resetted.

omg i guess the bug is not about the animation timer and speed or something different.
the issue in the fixed time steps. we are using time accumulator but inside of it there are only processEvent and update methods
the animations is rendered but render() function but the render() function itself is outside of the accumulator. when i put it inside
it doesnt work because there is no fps spike or something and the accumulator is not working. when i put it outside its always works per tick
so it works more then the update function.


also fix the clothes bug. clothes come behind after changing direction of movement.


well i guess the clothes bugs also happen because of fixed time step. actually not because of fixed time step. i was removed the delta time multiplication
from the speed when i was implementing the fixed time steps but i guess it wasjust a wrong implementation choice. now i added it back and it seem it is working normally
but i wonder why and thats why i need to research that and i assume that i should only use fixed time steps for mathematical and physical calculations as i mentioned and that proved it

i need to seperate the time mechanisms as delta time for movement or etc and fixed time steps for collisons and mathematical physical calculations

nice.
ill try to research and learn it by myself and if im not satisfied with it, i will maybe consider make an llm analyze this. ty.

im now reading the https://gafferongames.com/post/fix_your_timestep/ article in order to understand the logic behind fixing timesteps and numerical integration methods in order to
implement them into my own game engine. how to converge  the error ratio to 0.

makaleden anladigim sey su; bizim bir oyun dongumuz var belirli bir fpste calisan
bu fps 60 olabilir 30 olabilir 120 olabilir 75 olabilir neyse.
bu rakamlar bizim saniyede kac defa oyunu cizdigimiz kac kare cizdigimizi anlatir
 ve bu bilgisayarin gucune baglidir islem yapma hizina kapasitesin  ama bizim hesaplamalarimizin 
 evrensel olmasi icin bu cizilen kare sayisinin bizim fizik hesaplamalarimizi etkilememesi gerekir ama 
 bu dumduz baktiginda zordur cunku eger oyun 120 kare ciziyorsa bu demektir ki 120 kere oyunun kodlari 
 calisiyor update render processevent vs ama 120 kere calisan bir update fonksiyonu 60 kere calisan bir 
 update fonksiyonundan fazla hesaplama yapar ve daha fazla yakinsar farkli sonuc bulur farkli parametrelere 
 bagli olarak. burada yapmamiz gereken sey su. bir katsayi bulmak ve bunu esitleyici olarak kullanmak. biz bu 
 katsayiya dt diyoruz aslinda dt dedigimiz sey bir onceki frame ve bir sonraki frame arasinda gecen cok kucuk bir sure. 
 eger saniyede 60 kare ciziyorsak ve bu sabitse 1/60 olur dt. ivme ve hiz hesaplamalarinda bunu kullaniriz karakter hareket 
 ederken 10 hizi varsa ve fpstenj bagimsiz olursa bu 60 fps calisan bir oyunda 600 ilerlerken 120fps de 1200 ilerler ve bu 
 istenilen bir sey deigl bu yuzden bu movement vectoru dt ile carpip bu sayilari esitleriz 120 icin 1200 * 1/120 = 10 
 60 icin 600 * 1/60 = 10 olur ve esitlenir ama bu evrensel degildir tam olakrak daha dogrusu sadece fpsin sabit oldugu
 kosulda evrenseldir fps cok fazla oynak oldugunda bu degisebilir ve noktali sayilarda hassasiyet kaybi vs yasanabilir 
 makalede bu delta timein bir yerlerde bozulacagini soyluyor ama nasil bir bozulma bilmiyorum. fixed time step ise fizik 
 motorunun ve render dongusunun esitlenmesini saglar burada fixed time stepten kasit su. iki frame arasindaki sure alinir 
 eger bu belirledigimiz dtden buyuk ise fizik motoru geride kalmis demektir ve biz bunu bir time accumulator yardimiyla 
 render motoruna esitleriz. eger fizik motoru 30 render 60fps calisirsa biz fizik motorunu fazladan islem yaparak 60a 
 esitleriz bu sayede birlikte gider ve makaledeki son kisimda da su var. dt hic bir zaman tam olmaz hep noktali sayi olur 
 ama biz time accumulatorde cikarma islemi kullaniyoruz burada 60fps tam sayiya esitlemeye calistigimizda cok kucuk bile 
 olsa bir arta kalan zaman olacak bunu da bir sonraki dongunun zamanina ekliyoruz o zaman kucuk kucuk birikip oyunu bozuk 
 hissttirmesin diye. bunlari anladim. benim yanlis yaptigim kisim ise suydu ben fixed time step kullanirken update(dt) 
 olarak geciyordum ama burada kullanmam gereken sey dt degil timepertickti tamam biz time accumulatorde fizik motorunu 
 render motoruna esitliyoruz ama burada dt hala fpse bagli bir cikti uretiyor 2 frame arasindaki gecen sure ama fps ne kadar 
 coksa dt o kdaar kuck olur ters oranti eger ben update fonksiyonunu bu parametreyle cagirirsam animationu da etkilemis olurum 
 cunku animationtime degiskeni dtye bagli ve dt ne kadar kucuk olursa. animation frameler arasi o kadar kucuk olur ve hizli gecer 
 animasyon tam da bu bugu yasiyordum o yuzden benim dt olarak timepertick vermem gerekiyor ki her framede animation frame time sabit
  kalsin fpsten bagimsiz. 
