the issue in the project design is breaking the srp rule.

every file or class should only be responsible for its own mission. but now they are not.

for example animations also loading the sprites and some functions of player. this should not be like this.
i need to seperate this and also i need to setup a template texture class and texture manager in addition to template in order to
manage the textures easily and scalable in the future.

i also need to seperate animations and player classes player classes should be responsible of players attributes, movements or etc.
and animations should only be responsible for adding animations etc.

i also need to convert the animations.cpp into a template class and create a animationsmanager in order to control different kind of 
animations easily and scalable as the same as texture and make it to be easy in the future.


----
05082026

i figured out why the animations bug now is occur because i have 2 sprites 1 is on animations hpp and the other is player hpp this are 2 seperated sprites which their positions are same.
i need to lower it to 1 and they should share it but how idk. prob i need to sprite manager.


---

06082026
i just could not decide whether the texturemanager class should be template or not. my brain just like working it should not be a
template class it should be general and responsible for all kind of textures that is gonna be hold in game like player, tile and etc.
but i just could not figured it out how to do it because the texture class itself is template.

i have 2 different approaches.
|- making the base class template and it will be the same type as the texture object.
|_ making the base class non-template general class and passing the texture with declaring its T with public using var_type = T; and pass with this type.

idk which is the best approach tho i need to research it more and decide.

and also i need to figure out how to determine a thing is an object or not? and if it is an object, how i am going to say that the 
object has its collider and should be collide with other objects. i probably should give the object or obstacle a rectangle and 
check its bounds with the source of collision.
